How would we make
the optimistic updates apply to
other components which depend on the same
state to keep the UI consistent?
>> Yeah, that's a super question.
Actually, I'm super glad that we're
talking about this cuz I kinda forgot
to demonstrate something.
When we talked earlier about useFetchers,
that's the answer is useFetchers.
TodoMVC, anybody remember this thing?
I know Mark does, cuz he just rebuilt one
in vanilla that was 170 lines of code.
>> Yeah, it was 174.
>> Yeah, welcome to the modern Web,
it's amazing what you can do.
I also built a TodoMVC with Remix, and
this one has a bunch of other features,
like login and user,
it saves to a database, all the things.
But I also went way heavy
on the optimistic UI here.
And so if you go to a slow 3G network and
say one, two, three,
error, four, five, and
that error is gonna actually come back.
And it's gonna say, hey, this one
was wrong, you need to fix that one.
I coded it so that you can
include the word error in a todo.
So now I can say, okay,
well, let's fix that.
And then six, seven, error,
eight, error, nine, there it is.
[LAUGH] And so that error,
I submitted two errors this time, right?
So I'm gonna fix this one, and
that other one came back, too,
both of these came back.
And now I can continue with my nine.
It's a really amazing experience,
and this is one route.
Again, it handles user authentication,
actually persisting to a database on
the back end, taking care of network and
all of that stuff in 600 lines of
code with all that optimistic UI.
That's pretty rad, and
I challenge anybody watching to
rebuild this in any other framework and
compare it to what I have with Remix.
You can find this one at remix-todomvc.
And just let me know what you think
about if you have feature parity with
what I have and compare it to what we can
do with Remix with this optimistic UI,
cuz it is amazing.
So for all of this,
I have a couple of things.
Each one of these is its own component,
it has its own useFetchers for
stuff like checking these off and
all of that.
And then this parent here, let me
actually get rid of a couple of these so
we can see the whole thing.
This parent down here, or the parent that
wraps all of those in parent component,
is rendering how many items we have left.
So it needs to be optimistic
about how many items are left or
that are left to do as well.
So when I mark this as complete,
even though it takes a couple seconds,
I still need to say, hey,
how many are available optimistically?
So as I go back and forth between this,
we're going to get that number updating,
and I use useFetchers for that.
So the parent component uses useFetchers,
finds all the fetchers that are on
the page, and
determines what number to show here.
It also does the same thing for
these filters to know which ones to
show optimistically, even if that
isn't actually totally complete yet.
So it's pretty cool what we
can do with optimistic UI.
Yeah?
>> Do the fetchers have names?
How do you identify which one?
>> Yeah, so because each one of those
lines, I guess I should pull that back up.
Because each one of these
lines is its own component,
then they can all just be specific,
or they can name what they do.
So I have a toggle-complete fetcher,
I've got a delete fetcher,
yeah, all of that that you would expect.
So yeah, Mark?
>> The previous question was
around more double submit and
preventing double submit, and
I guess it ties into optimistic UI.
If they click twice quickly,
how do you prevent a double submit-
>> Yeah, great question.
So when I check this checkbox,
that is a submit, as is being described.
Here, let's slow down the network,
and Slow 3G.
I'm going to click it,
starting in an off-positioning,
I'm gonna click it seven times.
So it should be checked when I'm done and
after all revalidation, everything.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
You see in the network tab Remix is
automatically canceling the request.
Because as soon as I submit a new one,
Remix is like,
that request doesn't matter.
There's no way for us to go to the back
end and say, hey, that request, I mean,
the Web platform doesn't offer any way to
say, hey, never mind on that request, so
that would be application code.
But for us, the way that we're building
this, actually, it doesn't matter.
Because when we do this submission
Payload here, we actually just send,
what is the state that I want it
to be rather than saying toggle.
If you sent toggle, then that's your bad.
So set it to what you want it to be,
and that's the best way to build
a nice optimistic UI experience.
So yeah, resubmissions, we actually don't
need these requests to be canceled.
This is just Remix being a little bit nice
to your users and saving them the data.
What you're actually canceling is
the response, not the request,
when you do this.
So yeah, Remix handles that for
you automatically, which is why I guess I
failed to mention it, because you don't
have to think about it, yay, cool?
Yeah?
>> What is the formRef.current.reset
doing exactly?
>> Yeah, so that is resetting all of
the form fields to their default values.
So that's just a Web thing,
nothing to do with Remix,
as lots of things with
Remix are just Web things.
>> So
we would use the fetcher in the parent and
prop-drill the optimistic
state to its children?
>> No, so the fetcher will be colocated
to the component that needs it.
And then the parent can find all
of the fetchers via useFetchers.
So useFetchers will return all of
the fetchers that are active on the page,
even ones that are outside of this.
And I can just briefly show you how
the code works for that in our todos.
Here, useFetchers right here, so I get
all the fetchers that are on the page.
I filter those down to the ones
that we can be optimistic about.
There's a semantic around
that you can take a look at.
And then I filter that down to
the fetchers that are responsible for
creating new todos, the ones that
are responsible for deleting todos, and
the ones that are responsible for
toggling the state of todos,
cuz that's what the parent cares about.
It's like, if there's anything that
I could be optimistic about toggling,
then now I know what number to show.
I know which ones to show and which
active or completed or deleted, all that.
Yeah?
>> Is this using XState or
something similar behind the scenes?
>> So Remix is not, but I believe that
there are elements conceptually of state
machines in the transition manager,
which is responsible for all this stuff.